# Mobile Incident Response Playbooks


From ISACA article on [5 key IR playbooks](http://www.isaca.org/About-ISACA/-ISACA-Newsletter/Pages/@-isaca-volume-17-26-august-2015.aspx#1):

IR playbooks will reduce the stress and impact of incidents and should provide:

* guidelines
* methods and practices
* procedures
* checklists
* supporting materials

> These playbooks should be used and enhanced at least annually, and their details and requirements should be communicated in advance to leaders and stakeholders who may be affected by the playbook.


1. Information data breach—Data breaches have become one of the key concerns of many organizational leaders and practitioners alike. These breaches often will require a forensic approach to incident response vs. an operational one, since they have the potential to lead to public disclosure and potential litigation against the affected organization. It is important to include detailed procedures for forensic investigation, e.g., data isolation and retention, evidence collection, system and data preservation, and handling (including chain of custody), in playbooks for this scenario. Forensic responses often differ greatly from approaches that operational staff may typically follow for operational incident response activities, in which containment and remediation are typically the initial primary goals. Information data breaches also often require the integration and coordination of resources from legal and compliance, communications/public relations, outside counsel, an outside investigation team, and business process owners.

2. Virus/malicious code outbreak—A virus and malicious code outbreak can quickly spread to the technical infrastructure of an entire organization if not contained effectively. In virus or malicious code outbreak playbooks, it is important to first define methods and practices for identification and understanding the intentions and material business impacts of a virus or code and then compare this to the information risk profile of the organization. This will assist in defining the level of effort and acceptable business disruption that is appropriate for response and remediation efforts.

3. Insider attack—Playbooks for insider attacks have to be carefully developed and have limited distribution due to the purpose for which they are intended. No organization ever wants to believe that a trusted insider would turn against the organization and create an information security incident. This emotional sensitivity has to be considered in the playbook’s methods, practices and procedures. Insider attack playbooks should include procedures for engaging outside assistance for incident response and investigation activities and interactions with legal, compliance and human resource representatives. It is not recommended that personnel who are coworkers or have personal relationships with the malicious insider(s) lead or are meaningfully involved in these incident response activities due to their inherent conflicts of interest. Methods and practices in these playbooks should include capabilities for identifying, documenting and monitoring the current and previous activities of insider attackers, limiting their ability to access sensitive information assets and information infrastructure while under review, and procedures for backfilling key personnel in the case that they are no longer available to complete their work tasks while under review.

4. Physical incident or data loss—Many organizations have turned their focus for information security-related incidents to technology, while they still face physical system and data loss (e.g., lost devices or lost paper files, office break-ins). Playbooks for physical loss should be fairly similar to procedures for technical responses, but also include elements such as the ability to uniquely identify physical data assets and their contents, identify material business impacts of lost data, establish contacts and procedures to interact with law enforcement and physical security personnel, and preserve and process physical evidence.

5. Network-based denial of service—Network-based denial of service (DoS) attacks are intended to impact the availability of systems and services that organizations often rely on to conduct business. When developing DoS incident response playbooks, it is important to include contacts and maintain relationships with incident response personnel at the Internet service and telecommunications providers. It is often the case that these individuals and their organizations will be keys in the identification and remediation of DoS attacks since they can address the attacks at the sources more easily than the targeted organization. It is often useful to align response strategies and procedures with the organization’s system availability requirements and expectations. A tiered approach to incident response activities that differentiates between minimally acceptable and ideal system availability will help the enterprise apply appropriate response tactics and resources.

Information security-related incidents are no longer a possibility but more likely a probability for many organizations. The most effective incident response activities are choreographed and tested in advance to ensure that all appropriate measures are taken and nothing is missed in what is often a very stressful activity. It would not be realistic for an organization to develop incident response playbooks for every scenario. However, for those scenarios that are well understood and have a high level of probability, playbooks can make a measurable and material difference in the time, effort and impact involved in remediating security incidents.
